Feedback (#37)
ciupava/LandUseDemonstrator: book/method.qmd

> _add workflow (comprehensive of all the steps)_

Author: Is this supposed to be here?

Author: Supposed to be image.

Author: Transformed into an issue. https://github.com/ciupava/LandUseDemonstrator/issues/38

## Indicator selection

> The original list of indicators (see Intro) was pruned after an initial review of the available data, and software, as well as the interests of the stakeholders.

Author: There isn't an 'original list of indicators' in the intro. Is this discussed somewhere?

Author: Cut (or rephrase appropriately)

We resolved to use four indicators of interest:

- Air quality
- House prices
- Greenspace accessibility
- Job accessibility

For each of these indicators, we have detailed below how they are generated.
This step represents the _basic scenario_.

> We have two different types of indicators: while air quality and house prices are measurements of "actual data", accessibilities are estimated and generated in a deterministic way, so they cannot be directly modelled/predicted using some explanatory variables.

Author: ```suggestion
We have two different types of indicators: while air quality and house prices are derived using models fit to actual data, accessibilities are calculated directly from geographic data, so are not directly modelled/predicted using explanatory variables.
```

I don't think that 'deterministic' is the right word here — the models are also deterministic.

Author: "Refer to notebook for more details"

_add workflow (comprehensive of all the steps)_

## Indicator selection

The original list of indicators (see Intro) was pruned after an initial review of the available data, and software, as well as the interests of the stakeholders.

We resolved to use four indicators of interest:

- Air quality
- House prices
- Job accessibility
- Greenspace accessibility

For each of these indicators, we have detailed below how they are generated.
This step represents the _basic scenario_.

We have two different types of indicators: while air quality and house prices are measurements of "actual data", accessibilities are estimated and generated in a deterministic way, so cannot be directly modelled/predicted using some explanatory variables.

### Accessibility calculation

For accessibility computations, we calculate the cumulative potential accessibility to green spaces and jobs (collectively 'opportunities').

> We consider a set of (punctual) origins and opportunities' destinations and the time it takes to move between them on the road network, given different transport modes.

Author: What does 'punctual' mean in this context?

Author: Relating to the fact that they are points

  - *Greenspace*: Here, we use the open data set available from [Ordnance Survey](https://beta.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/products/os-open-greenspace) (OS).
    In particular, as a first approximation we consider the layer _"Access points"_ from this datum. This gives the coordinates of the access points to green spaces in all of Great Britain, which we use as destinations.

    As an opportunity measure, we count the total areas of the greenspace (layer _"Sites"_) to which these points give access to.
    The greenspace accessibility is then defined as the sum of the areas of greenspace sites reachable within 15 minutes.

A step-by-step description of the accessibility calculations is as follows:

**Indicator definition**

1. Obtain greenspace sites from OS
    - Filter out irrelevant categories (allotments, golf courses, bowling greens)
    - Retain entrances on the edge of the sites
    - Associate

   *(An idea for future improvement would be to obtain "missing" areas from Corine or OSM data.)*
1. Get the area of each site
1. Filter entrances within time threshold (15 min) of each origin (OA)

> 1. Consider unique values for parks (can be reached in )

Author: ```suggestion
1. Consider unique values for parks (can be reached within the threshold)
```

Is this correct?

Author: Remove the parentheses

1. Generate metric for each OA as the sum of reachable site size

**Build time travel matrix (TTM)**

We can build a TTM from two data sources: the road network, and a timetable for public transport.
We can obtain the first by donwloading [OpenStreetMap (OSM)](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Downloading_data) data for the area of interest.
Timetables for England public transport in GTFS format are available from [UK2GTFS](https://itsleeds.github.io/UK2GTFS/).
We use GTFS data because it is more compatible with the `ttm` calculation package.

1. Get time table for public transport > GTFS data
1. Get roads network > OSM data
1. Generate network graph > `r5` engine ([Conveyal](https://github.com/conveyal/r5)) > [`r5py` package](https://r5py.readthedocs.io/)
1. Generate TTM for 4 different modes > 'transit', 'bike', 'car', 'walking'

> 1. Time is fixed > _idea for future improvement_: edit for taking into account different day of the year/week, time of the day

Author: By *'time is fixed'*, do you mean that the 15-minute threshold is fixed, and thus doesn't account for (e.g.) peak hours?
